
2. What happens when you type www.attainu.com in your browser? (Marks 10)

Answer:

1. You enter the URL in the browser.
Suppose you want to visit the website of www.attainu.com . So you type www.attainu.com  in the address bar of your browser. 
When you type any URL you basically want to reach the server where the website is hosted.


2. The browser looks for the IP address of the domain name in the DNS(Domain Name Server).
DNS is a list of URLs and their corresponding IP address just like the telephone book has phone numbers corresponding to the names of the people.
The DNS checks at the following places for the IP address.

1. Check Browser Cache: The browser maintains a cache of the DNS records for some fixed amount of time. It is the first place to run a DNS query.
2. Check OS Cache: If the browser doesn't contain the cache then it requests to the underlying Operating System as the OS also maintains a cache of the DNS records.
3. Router Cache: If your computer doesn't have the cache, then it searches the routers as routers also have the cache of the DNS records.
4. ISP(Internet Service Provider) Cache: If the IP address is not found at the above three places then it is searched at the cache that ISP maintains of the DNS records.
   If not found here also, then ISP’s DNS recursive search is done. In "DNS recursive search", a DNS server initiates a DNS query that communicates with several other DNS servers to find the IP address.

So, the domain name which you entered got converted into a DNS number.


3. The Browser initiates a TCP connection with the server.
When the browser receives the IP address, it will build a connection between the browser and the server using the internet protocol. 
The most common protocol used is TCP protocol. The connection is established using a three-way handshake. It is a three-step process.

Step 1 (SYN): As the client wants to establish a connection so it sends an SYN(Synchronize Sequence Number) to the server which informs the server that the client wants to start a communication.
Step 2 (SYN + ACK): If the server is ready to accept connections and has open ports then it acknowledges the packet sent by the server with the SYN-ACK packet.
Step 3 (ACK): In the last step, the client acknowledges the response of the server by sending an ACK packet. Hence, a reliable connection is established and data transmission can start now.


4. The browser sends an HTTP request to the server.
The browser sends a GET request to the server asking for www.attainu.com webpage. It will also send the cookies that the browser has for this domain. 
Cookies are designed for websites to remember stateful information (items in the shopping cart or wishlist for a website like Amazon) or to record the user’s browsing history etc. 
It also has additional information like request header fields(User-Agent) for that allows the client to pass information about the request, and about the client itself, to the server. 
Other header fields like the Accept-Language header tells the server which language the client is able to understand. All these header fields are added together to form an HTTP request.


5. The server handles the incoming request and sends an HTTP response.
The server handles the HTTP request and sends a response. The first line is called the status line. A Status-Line consists of the protocol version(e.g HTTP/1.1)
followed by numeric status code(e.g 200)and its associated textual phrase(e.g OK). The status code is important as it contains the status of the response.

1xx: Informational: It means the request was received and the process is continuing.
2xx: Success: It means the action was successful.
3xx: Redirection: It means further action must be taken in order to complete the request. It may redirect the client to some other URL.
4xx: Client Error: It means some sort of error in the client’s part.
5xx: Server Error: It means there is some error on the server-side.
It also contains response header fields like Server, Location, etc. These header fields give information about the server. 
A Content-Length header is a number denoting the exact byte length of the HTTP body. All these headers along with some additional information are added to form an HTTP response.

6. The browser displays the HTML content.
Now the browser gets the response and the HTML web page is rendered in phases. 
First, it gets the HTML structure and then it sends multiple GET requests to get the embedded links, images, CSS, javascript files, etc and other stuff. 
The web page will be rendered and in this case, the afteracademy web page will be displayed.