 3. What is NAT and ARP ? Describe briefly

 Answer:  

 Network Address Translation (NAT):
     
     To access the Internet, one public IP address is needed, but we can use a private IP address in our private network.
The idea of NAT is to allow multiple devices to access the Internet through a single public address. 
To achieve this, the translation of private IP address to a public IP address is required. 
Network Address Translation (NAT) is a process in which one or more local IP address is translated into one or more Global IP address
and vice versa in order to provide Internet access to the local hosts. Also, it does the translation of port numbers i.e. 
masks the port number of the host with another port number, in the packet that will be routed to the destination.
It then makes the corresponding entries of IP address and port number in the NAT table. NAT generally operates on router or firewall.

Network Address Translation (NAT) working –

    Generally, the border router is configured for NAT i.e the router which has one interface in local (inside) network and one interface in the global (outside) network.
When a packet traverse outside the local (inside) network, then NAT converts that local (private) IP address to a global (public) IP address.
When a packet enters the local network, the global (public) IP address is converted to a local (private) IP address.

Network Address Translation (NAT) Types –
There are 3 ways to configure NAT:

Static NAT – In this, a single unregistered (Private) IP address is mapped with a legally registered (Public) IP address i.e one-to-one mapping between local and global address. 

Dynamic NAT – In this type of NAT, an unregistered IP address is translated into a registered (Public) IP address from a pool of public IP address. If the IP address of pool is not free,
then the packet will be dropped as an only a fixed number of private IP address can be translated to public addresses.

Port Address Translation (PAT) – This is also known as NAT overload.



Address Resolution Protocol (ARP):

        Most of the computer programs/applications use logical address (IP address) to send/receive messages, 
however the actual communication happens over the physical address (MAC address) i.e from layer 2 of OSI model.
So our mission is to get the destination MAC address which helps in communicating with other devices. 
This is where ARP comes into the picture, its functionality is to translate IP address to physical address. 

ARP Cache: After resolving MAC address, the ARP sends it to the source where it stores in a table for future reference. 
The subsequent communications can use the MAC address from the table

ARP Cache Timeout: It indicates the time for which the MAC address in the ARP cache can reside

ARP request: 

This is nothing but broadcasting a packet over the network to validate whether we came across destination MAC address or not.

The physical address of the sender.
The IP address of the sender.
The physical address of the receiver is FF:FF:FF:FF:FF:FF or 1’s.
The IP address of the receiver
ARP response/reply: It is the MAC address response that the source receives from the destination which aids in further communication of the data. 